hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
problem from a fifth grade
Chinese textbook in the quadrilateral
ABCD angle a is equal to 90 degrees
angle abd is equal to 40 degrees angle
BD C is equal to five degrees angle C is
equal to 45 degrees and the length of a
B is equal to 6 the puzzle is to find
the area of quadrilateral ABCD I think
Eric from Miami for suggesting this
problem and for sending a solution can
you figure it out give this problem a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for a solution so how can we
solve this problem I'm first going to
present the long way which is to solve
with trigonometry this is the way I
would have solved the problem but it's
actually not the way that students would
have been expected to solve it because
5th graders would not have learned
trigonometry so I'm going to show this
method just to show how you could solve
it using trigonometry it's going to be
rather complicated and I'm gonna go
through it very quickly and I'm just
gonna assume that you can figure out all
the trigonometric steps along the way so
let's solve this and then we'll see by
comparison the correct method by which
they expected students to solve the
problem so let's get started first we'll
solve that angle ADB is equal to 50
degrees and then angle DBC is equal to
130 degrees next we'll calculate that
the length of a D is equal to 6 times
the tangent of 40 degrees then the
length of BD is equal to 6 divided by
the cosine of 40 degrees
we can then use the law of sines to get
that CB is equal to 6 divided by the
cosine of 40 degrees times the ratio the
sine of 5 degrees over the sine of 45
degrees
now that we've calculated some of these
values we can calculate the areas we
want now triangle abd is a right
triangle so we can calculate its area as
6 times 6 times a tangent of 40 degrees
all over 2 we then need to calculate the
area of triangle CBD to do that we use
the formula for the air of the triangle
in which we know a side and angle and a
side this formula is to multiply the
length of one side times the length of
the adjacent side times the sine of the
angle in between and you divide all of
that by 2 so we substitute in the values
we have using side CB BD and the angle
in between so now to get the area of the
quadrilateral we take the area of a BD +
the area of CBD you can use a calculator
to do this I don't know how you would
simplify it otherwise and you end up
with the answer of 18 Wow how does it
all come down to 18 what's the trick so
here we go the incredible trick is to
flip a triangle CBD upside down so we'll
focus on triangle CBD and now let's flip
it upside down now notice that angle ADC
is equal to 50 degrees plus 130 degrees
which is equal to 180 degrees which is a
straight line next angle ABC is equal to
40 plus 5 which is 45 degrees and then
angle ACB is equal to 45 degrees so what
we have now is that ABC is an isosceles
right triangle and the area we want will
the area of this entire shape so we can
simplify this to be an isosceles right
triangle one of its sides is six so the
other side is also equal to six the area
of this triangle will be its base times
its height divided by two which is six
times six divided by two and that's
equal to eighteen amazing this is unlike
any problem I've seen in a math class
competition or a test what a neat
simplification did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free inspire and build confidence for
people around the world and they already
have over a hundred million views let's
share the beauty of mathematics with
your help we can map the world a better
place please subscribe for free to get
the news videos watch and share all of
my near decisions videos email me a
puzzle or mat topic presh at mind your
decisions comm if you so choose you can
check out my books which are linked in
the video description and you can
support me on patreon to earn exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support